[IMP] payroll: updating payslips info and pics for 17 (#7740)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/payroll/payslips.rst

  the payslip can be entered, such as deductions, reimbursements, and expenses.

  Click :guilabel:`Add a line` to create an entry in the :guilabel:`Other Inputs` section.

  Using the drop-down menu, select a :guilabel:`Type` for the input. Next, enter a
  :guilabel:`Description`, if desired. Last, enter the amount in the :guilabel:`Count` field.
- :guilabel:`Salary Computation`: the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab is automatically filled in
  after the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button is clicked. Doing so displays all the wages,
  deductions, taxes, etc. for the entry.
- :guilabel:`Has Negative Net To Report`: tick the checkbox if the employee has a negative net
  amount for this payslip.
- :guilabel:`Close Date`: located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, enter the date that the payment
  is made to the employee.

  Click in the field and a calendar pop-up window appears. Using the :guilabel:`< >
  (less-than/greater-than)` icons, navigate to the desired month and year.

  Then, click on the desired date to select it.
- :guilabel:`Date Account`: located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, enter the date on

>   which the payslip should be posted.

Reviewer: early line break, move 'which' to previous line

button. Doing so reveals a pop-up form, in which the desired :guilabel:`Bank Journal` that the
payment should be made against must be selected from a drop-down menu. Then, click the
:guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the journal, and return to the payslip.

Odoo automatically checks bank account information. If there is an error with the employee's listed
bank account, an error appears in a pop-up window, stating `The employee bank account is
untrusted.` If this error appears, update the employee's bank account information on their
:ref:`Employee Form <employees/private-info>`.

If a payment needs to be canceled or refunded, click the corresponding :guilabel:`Cancel` or
:guilabel:`Refund` button, located at the top-left of the screen.

.. important::
   In order for a payslip to be paid, the employee *must* have a bank account entered in their
   contact information. If there is no bank information, a payslip cannot be paid, and an error
   appears when the :guilabel:`Make Payment` button is clicked. Banking information can be found in
   the :ref:`Private Information <employees/private-info>` tab on the employee's card. Edit the

>    employee card, and add banking information, if it is missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   employee card, and add banking information if it is missing.
```

:ref:`Employee Payslips <payroll/all-payslips>` page.

Create a new payslip by clicking the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner.

A blank payslip form is loaded, where the necessary payslip information can be entered.

Required fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the blank payslip form, several fields are required. Most of the required fields auto-populate
after an employee is selected.

Enter the following information on the new payslip form:

- :guilabel:`Employee`: type in the name of an employee, or select the desired employee from the
  drop-down list.
- :guilabel:`Period`: the current month (the first day to the last day) auto-populates the
  :guilabel:`Period` fields by default. The dates can be changed, if desired.

  To change the start date, click on the first date field to reveal a pop-up calendar. On this
  calendar, use the :guilabel:`< (less-than)` and :guilabel:`> (greater-than)` icons to select the
  desired month, then click on the desired day to select that specific date.

  Repeat this process to modify the end date for the payslip.
- :guilabel:`Contract`: using the drop-down menu, select the desired contract for the employee. Only

>   the available corresponding contracts for the selected employee appear as options.

Author: I made a note in the Employee part- since people should ONLY be writing pay slips for employees in the system (doesn't make sense to not follow that order- they are hired, added to the system, with a contract, then after they have worked, they get a paycheck. Agree? Made sense to me!) I think the note should clear it up, and it links to the doc explaining how to do all that.

- :guilabel:`Structure`: using the drop-down menu, select the salary structure type. Only the

>   corresponding structures associated with the selected contract for the employee appear as options.

Author: Nice catch! I clarified that all structures appear, and if structures do not apply for a specific employee or contract, it doesn't appear.

- :guilabel:`Payslip Name`: in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, type in a name for the payslip. The
  name should be short and descriptive, such as `(Employee Name) April 2023`.
- :guilabel:`Company`: in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, select the company the payslip applies to
  using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: this field, located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, auto-populates
  after selecting an :guilabel:`Employee`. This field **cannot** be edited, as it is linked to the
  *Accounting* application.

.. image:: payslips/new-payslip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The necessary fields for a new payslip.

.. note::
   Typically, after making a selection in the :guilabel:`Employee` field, Odoo auto-populates all
   other required fields (besides the :guilabel:`Period` field), but **only** if that information is
   already on that employee's form in the *Employees* app.

.. important::
   If modifications to auto-populated fields are made, it is recommended to check with the
   accounting department to ensure every entry that affects the *Accounting* application is correct.

Other fields

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~

Author: Good idea- that's what I did on previous forms, where there was SO MUCH to enter. I had a 'required fields' and an 'optional fields' section. But I agree- I remember doing that with a different form, and saying 'this field is required. for all the parts that did that.

  :guilabel:`Worked Days` (including the :guilabel:`Type`, :guilabel:`Description`,
  :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Number of Hours`, and :guilabel:`Amount`) are automatically
  filled in, based on what was entered for the :guilabel:`Period`, :guilabel:`Contract`, and
  :guilabel:`Structure` fields of the payslip form.
- :guilabel:`Other Inputs`: in the :guilabel:`Worked Days & Inputs` tab, additional inputs affecting
  the payslip can be entered, such as deductions, reimbursements, and expenses.

  Click :guilabel:`Add a line` to create an entry in the :guilabel:`Other Inputs` section.

  Using the drop-down menu, select a :guilabel:`Type` for the input. Next, enter a
  :guilabel:`Description`, if desired. Last, enter the amount in the :guilabel:`Count` field.
- :guilabel:`Salary Computation`: the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab is automatically filled in
  after the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button is clicked. Doing so displays the entry's wages,
  deductions, taxes, etc. for the entry.
- :guilabel:`Has Negative Net To Report`: click the checkbox if the employee has a negative net

>   amount for this payslip.

Author: This only shows up if it applies- I added this.

- :guilabel:`Close Date`: located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, enter the date that the payment
  is made to the employee.

  Click in the field and a calendar pop-up window appears. Using the :guilabel:`< >
  (less-than/greater-than)` icons, navigate to the desired month and year.

  Then, click on the desired date to select it.
- :guilabel:`Date Account`: located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, enter the date on which the
  payslip should be posted.

> - :guilabel:`Accounting Entry`: this field, located in the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab,

Author: Again- good catch!

  is automatically filled in once the payslip is confirmed. This field is not able to be modified.
- :guilabel:`Add an Internal Note...`: any note or reference message for the new entry can be typed
  in the field.

Process the new payslip
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When all the necessary information on the payslip is entered, click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet`
button. All the information on the payslip is saved, and the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab

> auto-populates based on the information on the employee's contract or attendance records.

Author: No- this is a 'you have to press this button to make this other information appear' situation. It won't compute/populate that tab until that button is pressed.

If any modifications need to be made, first click the :guilabel:`Cancel` button, then click the
:guilabel:`Set to Draft` button. Make any desired changes, then click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet`
button and the changes are reflected in the :guilabel:`Worked Days` and :guilabel:`Salary
Computation` tabs.

Once everything on the payslip form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to
create the payslip.

A confirmation pop-up window asks, `Are you sure you want to proceed?`. Click :guilabel:`OK` to
confirm.

The chatter is automatically updated to show the email sent to the employee, along with a PDF copy

> of the payslip.

Author: When I did this, it took a full minute to "think it through" so to speak! A new tab opens, where I assume the PDF is being made and downloaded- then the tab disappears (weird). BUT after that, it does appear- but you may need to refresh the window to see it. This is what happens after I did the same thing, waited for that tab, an refreshed:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/575bf24c-c338-429b-860a-1ce75e6ae46a)

I've added more info on this so it's more clear!

To print the payslip, click the :guilabel:`Print` button. To cancel the payslip, click the
:guilabel:`Cancel` button.

.. image:: payslips/payslip-chatter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The new payslip is emailed to the employee and the email appears in the chatter.

> Next, the payment must be sent to the employee. To do this, click the :guilabel:`Register Payment`

Author: I get that a lot- it is usually due to a setting on the salary rules, or outside a contract (those are the most common errors I get). I tried again in a runbot, and got many successful payments- so I am wondering if someone went into a runbot you were using and changed something in the salary configurator, or rules, etc that caused a cascading issue? It's easy to totally derail the whole Payroll system by changing something somewhere else =). 

I added a tip block explaining errors, and warnings- where to find them, etc. 

So for the next look through, if you have multiple issues again- I'd honestly try a different runbot and see if that helps! I did get that problem half the time when writing this doc, and trying different runbots helped.

button. Doing so reveals a pop-up form, in which the desired :guilabel:`Bank Journal` that the
payment should be made against must be selected from a drop-down menu. Then, click the
:guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the journal, and return to the payslip.

Odoo automatically checks bank account information. If there is an error with the employee's listed
bank account, an error appears in a pop-up window, stating, `The employee bank account is
untrusted.` If this error appears, update the employee's bank account information on their
:ref:`Employee Form <employees/private-info>`.

If a payment needs to be canceled or refunded, click the corresponding :guilabel:`Cancel` or
:guilabel:`Refund` button, located at the top-left of the screen.

.. important::
   In order for a payslip to be paid, the employee *must* have a bank account entered in their
   contact information. If there is no bank information, a payslip cannot be paid, and an error
   appears when the :guilabel:`Make Payment` button is clicked. Banking information can be found in
   the :ref:`Private Information <employees/private-info>` tab on the employee's card. Edit the

>    employee card, and add banking information if it is missing.

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming this is why I continued to get that error...? not sure. If so, since I encountered that issue after click 'Register Payment' this admonition may be best if placed right after that step.

Author: I agree! That ight have been why- this has been moved up.

   .. image:: payslips/banking.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Banking information can be entered in an employee's card.

> .. _payroll/all-payslips:

Author: I totally understand! And like my comment from above, I would try a different runbot i you get a big issue when reviewing. People can easily 'break' the various threads connecting payroll to everything else, and sometimes, just changing a rule or deleting something in the settings, can completely break everything. I know I broke it several times =D

All payslips
============

To view all payslips regardless of status, go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All
Payslips`. The :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page loads, displaying all payslips, organized by batch

> (in a default list view).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a default nested list view.
```

Click on the :guilabel:`▶ (right arrow)` next to the individual batch name to view all the payslips
in that particular batch, along with all the payslip details.

The number of payslips in the batch is written in parenthesis after the batch name. The

> :guilabel:`Status` for each individual payslip appears on the far-right side, indicating if it is in
> :guilabel:`Draft Mode`, :guilabel:`Waiting`, :guilabel:`Done`, or if it is :guilabel:`Paid`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Status` for each individual payslip appears on the far-right side, indicating one of the
following status options: :guilabel:`Draft`, :guilabel:`Waiting`, :guilabel:`Done`, or
:guilabel:`Paid`.
```

.. note::
   - :guilabel:`Draft` indicates the payslip is created, and there is still time to make edits,
     since the amounts are not calculated.
   - :guilabel:`Waiting` indicates the payslip has been calculated and the salary details can be
     found in the *Salary Computation* tab.
   - :guilabel:`Done` indicates the payslip is calculated and ready to be paid.

>    - :guilabel:`Paid` indicates the employee has been paid.

Reviewer 2: I think this can work as a list without being an admonition -- what do you think?

also, I'd suggest using colons to define each status.

For example:

'Draft': indicated the payslip is ...

- :guilabel:`Accounting Entry`: if applicable, this field is automatically populated once the
  payslip is confirmed. This field **cannot** be modified.
- :guilabel:`Add an Internal Note...`: any note or reference message for the new entry can be typed
  in this field.

.. image:: payslips/other-info-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The fields filled out in the other info tab.

Process the new payslip
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When all the necessary information on the payslip is entered, click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet`
button. Upon doing so, all the information on the payslip is saved, and the :guilabel:`Salary
Computation` tab auto-populates, based on the information on the employee's contract or attendance
records.

If any modifications need to be made, first click the :guilabel:`Cancel` button, then click the
:guilabel:`Set to Draft` button. Make any desired changes, then click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet`
button once again, and the changes are reflected in the :guilabel:`Worked Days` and
:guilabel:`Salary Computation` tabs.

Once everything on the payslip form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to
create the payslip.

> Then, a confirmation pop-up window appears, asking `Are you sure you want to proceed?`. Click
> :guilabel:`OK` to confirm.

Reviewer 3: On-screen text needs a :guilabel:
```suggestion
Then, a confirmation pop-up window appears, asking :guilabel:`Are you sure you want to proceed?`.
Click :guilabel:`OK` to confirm.
```

  payslip should be added to.
- :guilabel:`Structure`: using the drop-down menu, select the salary structure type. Only the
  corresponding structures associated with the selected contract for the employee appear as options.

  If no employee and/or no contract is selected yet, all available :guilabel:`Structures` appear in
  the list. Once an employee and/or contract is selected, any unavailable :guilabel:`Structures` set
  for that employee and/or contract do not appear. This field is required.

.. image:: payslips/new-payslip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The top fields for a new payslip all filled out for a February payslip.

.. note::
   Typically, after making a selection in the :guilabel:`Employee` field, Odoo auto-populates all
   other required fields (besides the :guilabel:`Period` field), but **only** if that information is
   already on that employee's form in the *Employees* app.

.. important::
   If modifications to auto-populated fields are made, it is recommended to check with the
   accounting department to ensure every entry that affects the *Accounting* application is correct.

> Worked days & inputs tab

Author: I would typically agree, but with the new style standards, we were supposed to be using this format. I have changed all the headings to be in this case, so since I feel it is more in alignment with the guidelines, I am going to keep this as it is.

************************

- :guilabel:`Worked Days`: the entries under :guilabel:`Worked Days` (including the
  :guilabel:`Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Number of
  Hours`, and :guilabel:`Amount`) are automatically filled in, based on what was entered for the
  :guilabel:`Period`, :guilabel:`Contract`, and :guilabel:`Structure` fields of the payslip form.
- :guilabel:`Other Inputs`: additional inputs affecting the payslip can be entered in this section,
  such as deductions, reimbursements, and expenses.

  Click :guilabel:`Add a line` to create an entry in the :guilabel:`Other Inputs` section.

  Using the drop-down menu in the :guilabel:`Type` column, select a :guilabel:`Type` for the input.
  Next, enter a :guilabel:`Description`, if desired. Lastly, enter the amount in the
  :guilabel:`Count` field.

.. image:: payslips/worked-days-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The fields filled out in the worked days and inputs tab.

> Salary computation tab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Salary Computation tab
```
same capitalization methodology as mentioned above.

**********************

- :guilabel:`Salary Computation`: the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab is automatically filled in

>   after the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button is clicked. Doing so displays the entry's wages,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  after the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button is clicked. Doing so displays the wages,
```

  deductions, taxes, etc. for the entry.
- :guilabel:`Has Negative Net To Report`: click the checkbox if the employee has a negative net
  amount for this payslip. This **only** appears if the employee's payslip has a negative balance.

.. image:: payslips/salary-comp-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The fields filled out in the salary computation tab.

> Other info tab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other Info tab
```
same reasoning as above

**************

> - :guilabel:`Payslip Name`: in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, type in a name for the payslip in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Payslip Name`: type in a name for the payslip in
```
since it's already in the Other Info tab section, I don't believe the second mention of its tab whereabouts is necessary

  this field. The name should be short and descriptive, such as `(Employee Name) April 2023`. This

>   field is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  field is **required**.
```

> - :guilabel:`Company`: in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, select the company the payslip applies to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Company`: select the company the payslip applies to
```

>   using the drop-down menu in this field. This field is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  using the drop-down menu in this field. This field is **required**.
```

> - :guilabel:`Close Date`: located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, enter the date that the payment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Close Date`: enter the date that the payment
```

  is made to the employee in this field.

  Click in the field to reveal a calendar pop-up window. Using the :guilabel:`< >
  (less-than/greater-than)` icons, navigate to the desired month and year.

  Then, click on the desired date to select it.

> - :guilabel:`Date Account`: located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, enter the date on which the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Date Account`: enter the date on which the
```

  payslip should be posted in this field.

> - :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: this field, located in the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab, auto-populates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: this field auto-populates
```

  after selecting an existing :guilabel:`Employee`. This field **cannot** be edited, as it is linked

>   to the *Accounting* application. This field is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  to the *Accounting* application. This field is **required**.
```

- :guilabel:`Accounting Entry`: if applicable, this field is automatically populated once the

>   payslip is confirmed. This field is not able to be modified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  payslip is confirmed. This field **cannot** be modified.
```

- :guilabel:`Add an Internal Note...`: any note or reference message for the new entry can be typed

>   in the field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  in this field.
```

.. image:: payslips/other-info-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The fields filled out in the other info tab.

Process the new payslip
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When all the necessary information on the payslip is entered, click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet`
button. Upon doing so, all the information on the payslip is saved, and the :guilabel:`Salary

> Computation` tab auto-populates based on the information on the employee's contract or attendance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Computation` tab auto-populates, based on the information on the employee's contract or attendance
```

:guilabel:`OK` to confirm.

The chatter is automatically updated to show the email sent to the employee, along with a PDF copy
of the payslip.

.. note::
   The database may need to be refreshed for the payslip and email to appear.

To print the payslip, click the :guilabel:`Print` button. To cancel the payslip, click the
:guilabel:`Cancel` button.

.. image:: payslips/payslip-chatter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The new payslip is emailed to the employee and the email appears in the chatter.

Next, the payment must be sent to the employee. To do this, click the :guilabel:`Register Payment`
button. Doing so reveals a pop-up form, in which the desired :guilabel:`Bank Journal` that the
payment should be made against must be selected from a drop-down menu. Then, click the
:guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the journal, and return to the payslip.

.. important::
   In order for a payslip to be paid, the employee *must* have a bank account entered in their
   contact information. If there is no bank information, a payslip cannot be paid, and an error
   appears when the :guilabel:`Make Payment` button is clicked. Banking information can be found in

>    the :ref:`Private Information <employees/private-info>` tab on the employee's card. Edit the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the :ref:`Private Information <employees/private-info>` tab on the employee's card in the *Employees* app. Edit the
```

>    employee card, and add banking information if it is missing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   employee card, and add banking information, if it is missing.
```

:guilabel:`Refund` button, located at the top-left of the screen.

.. Tip::
   Before processing payslips, it is best practice to check the :guilabel:`Warnings` section of the
   *Payroll* app dashboard. Here, all possible issues concerning payroll appear.

   To view the :guilabel:`Warnings`, navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Dashboard`. The
   :guilabel:`Warnings` appear in the top-left corner of the dashboard.

   .. image:: payslips/warnings.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The dashboard view of the Payroll app, with the warnings box highlighted.

   Warnings are grouped by type, such as `Employees Without Running Contracts` or `Employees Without
   Bank account Number`. Click on a warning to view all entries associated with that specific issue.

   If the :guilabel:`Warnings` are not resolved, at any point in the payslip processing process, an
   error may occur. Errors appear in a pop-up window, and provide details for the error, and how to
   resolve them.

  Payslips **cannot** be completed if there are any warnings or issues associated with the payslip.

.. _payroll/all-payslips:

All payslips
============

> To view all payslips regardless of status, go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view all payslips, regardless of status, go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All
```

> Payslips`. The :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page loads, displaying all payslips, organized by batch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Payslips`. The :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page loads, displaying all payslips, organized by batch,
```

in a default nested list view.

Click on the :guilabel:`▶ (right arrow)` next to an individual batch name to view all the payslips
in that particular batch, along with all the payslip details.

The number of payslips in the batch is written in parenthesis after the batch name. The
:guilabel:`Status` for each individual payslip appears on the far-right side, indicating one of the
following status options:

- :guilabel:`Draft`: the payslip is created, and there is still time to make edits, since the
  amounts are not calculated.

> - :guilabel:`Waiting`: the payslip has been calculated and the salary details can be found in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Waiting`: the payslip has been calculated, and the salary details can be found in the
```

breadcrumb menu, click :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` to go back to the list view of all payslips.

A new payslip can be created from the :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page, by clicking the
:guilabel:`New` button in the upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a separate blank payslip form
page. On that blank payslip form page, enter all the necessary information, as described in the
:ref:`Create new payslip <payroll/new-payslip>` section.

To print PDF versions of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips to Pay` or :guilabel:`Employee
Payslips` pages, first select the desired payslips by clicking on the individual checkbox to the
left of each payslip to be printed. Or, click the box to the left of :guilabel:`Reference`, which
selects all visible payslips on the page. Then, click the :guilabel:`Print` button to print the
payslips.

Payslips can also be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. When exporting, all payslips are exported
regardless of whether some are selected or not. Click on the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the end
of the words `Employee Payslips` in the top-left corner. This reveals a drop-down menu. Click

> :guilabel:`Export All` to export all payslips to an Excel spreadsheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Export All` to export all payslips to a spreadsheet.
```

breadcrumb menu, click :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` to go back to the list view of all payslips.

A new payslip can be created from the :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page, by clicking the
:guilabel:`New` button in the upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a separate blank payslip form
page. On that blank payslip form page, enter all the necessary information, as described in the

> :ref:`Create new payslip <payroll/new-payslip>` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:ref:`Create new payslips <payroll/new-payslip>` section.
```

To print PDF versions of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips to Pay` or :guilabel:`Employee
Payslips` pages, first select the desired payslips by clicking on the individual checkbox to the

> left of each payslip to be printed. Or, click the box to the left of :guilabel:`Reference`, which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
left of each payslip to be printed. Or, click the box to the left of the :guilabel:`Reference` column title, which
```

selects all visible payslips on the page. Then, click the :guilabel:`Print` button to print the
payslips.

> Payslips can also be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. When exporting, all payslips are exported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Payslips can also be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. When exporting, *all* payslips are exported,
```

> regardless of whether some are selected or not. Click on the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the end
> of the words `Employee Payslips` in the top-left corner. This reveals a drop-down menu. Click
> :guilabel:`Export All` to export all payslips to a spreadsheet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
regardless of whether some are selected or not. To export payslips, click on the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the end
of the words `Employee Payslips` in the top-left corner. This reveals a drop-down menu. Click
:guilabel:`Export All` to export all payslips to a spreadsheet.
```
when certain payslips are selected, the actions gear icon appears at the top-center of the screen, and isn't referred to as 'Export' all...it's just 'Export' -- it may be beneficial to highlight this potential difference, as well

Author: I missed that- I added both options, thank you!

display all the payslip batches that have been created. These payslip batches are displayed in a
list view, by default.

Each batch displays the :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`Date From` and :guilabel:`Date To` dates, its
:guilabel:`Status`, the number of payslips in the batch (:guilabel:`Payslips Count`), and the
:guilabel:`Company`.

.. image:: payslips/batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View displaying all batches created.

Create a new batch
------------------

To create a new batch of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`), click the :guilabel:`New` button in the
top-left corner. Doing so reveals a blank payslip batch form on a separate page.

On the new payslip batch form, enter the :guilabel:`Batch Name` in the field.

Next, select the date range to which the batch applies. Click into one of the :guilabel:`Period`
fields and a calendar pop-up window appears. From this calendar pop-up window, navigate to the

> correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates of the batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correct month and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates of the batch.
```

The current company populates the :guilabel:`Company` field. If operating in a multi-company

> environment, it is not possible to modify the :guilabel:`Company` from the form. The batch must be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment, it is **not** possible to modify the :guilabel:`Company` from the form. The batch must be
```

created while in the database for the desired company.

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

When all the information on the payslip batch form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Add Payslips`
button at the top-left of the page. A pop-up window appears with all the available payslips that can
be added to the batch.

Click the checkbox to the left of each payslip to select it. When all desired payslips have been
selected, click the :guilabel:`Select` button. The pop-up window closes, and the payslips have been
added to the batch.

.. _payroll/batch-process:

Process a batch
---------------

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch on a separate page. On this batch
detail page, different options (buttons) appear at the top, depending on the status of the batch:

- :guilabel:`New`: batches without any payslips added to them have a status of :guilabel:`New`.
  Only these batches present the option to add payslips to the selected batch. Click the
  :guilabel:`Add Payslips` button and an :guilabel:`Add Payslips` pop-up window appears. Only

>   payslips that are able to be added to the batch (payslips not currently part of a batch) appear on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  payslips that can be added to the batch (payslips not currently part of a batch) appear on
```

  the list. Select the desired payslips by clicking the small box to the left of each payslip name,
  then click the :guilabel:`Select` button to add them to the batch.
- :guilabel:`Confirmed`: batches that have been created and have payslips in them, but the payslips
  have not been paid out yet, have a status of :guilabel:`Confirmed`. These batches display a
  :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button. Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to confirm
  the individual payslips (and the batch), and create a draft of the payslips. The batch now has a
  status of :guilabel:`Done`.
- :guilabel:`Done`: batches with confirmed payslips in them have a status of :guilabel:`Done`. The
  following two button options appear for these batches:

  - :guilabel:`Create Payment Report`: click the :guilabel:`Create Payment Report` button and a
    :guilabel:`Select a bank journal` pop-up window appears. Select the correct bank journal from
    the drop-down menu. The batch name appears in the :guilabel:`File name` field, but this can be

>     modified, if desired. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips, and pay the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    modified if desired. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips and pay the
```

    employees.
  - :guilabel:`Mark as paid`: after the payments have been created via the :guilabel:`Create Payment
    Report` button, the payslips need to be marked as paid in the database. Click the
    :guilabel:`Mark as paid` button, and the status of the batch changes to :guilabel:`Paid`.

On the batch detail page, the individual payslips in the batch are accessible via the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button, located above the batch information, in the center. Click the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button to view a list of the individual payslips.

> Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page, or back to the list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page or back to the list of
```

all batches.

Generate warrant payslips
-------------------------

Commissions are paid to employees in Odoo using warrant payslips.

Warrant payslips can be generated directly from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`).

First, select the desired batches by clicking the box to the left of each batch to create

> commissions payslips for. Next, click the :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` button at the top of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commission payslips for. Next, click the :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` button at the top of
```

display all the payslip batches that have been created. These payslip batches are displayed in a
list view, by default.

Each batch displays the :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`Date From` and :guilabel:`Date To` dates, its
:guilabel:`Status`, the number of payslips in the batch (:guilabel:`Payslips Count`), and the
:guilabel:`Company`.

.. image:: payslips/batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View displaying all batches created.

Create a new batch
------------------

To create a new batch of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`), click the :guilabel:`New` button in the
top-left corner. Doing so reveals a blank payslip batch form on a separate page.

> On the new payslip batch form, enter the :guilabel:`Batch Name` in the field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the new payslip batch form, enter the :guilabel:`Batch Name`.
```

Next, select the date range to which the batch applies. Click into one of the :guilabel:`Period`
fields and a calendar pop-up window appears. From this calendar pop-up window, navigate to the

> correct month and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates of the batch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates of the batch.
```

The current company populates the :guilabel:`Company` field. If operating in a multi-company

> environment, it is **not** possible to modify the :guilabel:`Company` from the form. The batch must

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
environment, it is **not** possible to modify the :guilabel:`Company` from the form. The batch **must**
```

be created while in the database for the desired company.

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

When all the information on the payslip batch form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Add Payslips`
button at the top-left of the page. A pop-up window appears with all the available payslips that can
be added to the batch.

> Click the checkbox to the left of each payslip to select it. When all desired payslips have been

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the checkbox to the left of each desired payslip to select it. When all desired payslips have been
```

selected, click the :guilabel:`Select` button. The pop-up window closes, and the payslips have been
added to the batch.

.. _payroll/batch-process:

Process a batch
---------------

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch on a separate page. On this batch
detail page, different options (buttons) appear at the top, depending on the status of the batch:

> 

Reviewer 2: I think a line here introducing the following list as 'Statuses' would be very helpful

Author: With the way I redid this, I think it is more clear- but I am open to more suggestions after your second look though!

> - :guilabel:`New`: batches without any payslips added to them have a status of :guilabel:`New`.

Reviewer 2: is this to represent the New button or New status?

Author: I totally redid this section so it is WAY more clear! I can see how confusing this was to read now that I am looking at it a third time!

>   Only these batches present the option to add payslips to the selected batch. Click the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Only these batches present the option to add payslips to the selected batch, via the :guilabel:`Add Payslips` button. Click the
```

  :guilabel:`Add Payslips` button and an :guilabel:`Add Payslips` pop-up window appears. Only
  payslips that can be added to the batch (payslips not currently part of a batch) appear on the

>   list. Select the desired payslips by clicking the small box to the left of each payslip name, then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  list. Select the desired payslips by clicking the checkbox to the left of each payslip name, then
```

  click the :guilabel:`Select` button to add them to the batch.
- :guilabel:`Confirmed`: batches that have been created and have payslips in them, but the payslips

>   have not been paid out yet, have a status of :guilabel:`Confirmed`. These batches display a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  have *not* been paid out yet, have a status of :guilabel:`Confirmed`. These batches display a
```

  :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button. Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to confirm
  the individual payslips (and the batch), and create a draft of the payslips. The batch now has a
  status of :guilabel:`Done`.
- :guilabel:`Done`: batches with confirmed payslips in them have a status of :guilabel:`Done`. The
  following two button options appear for these batches:

  - :guilabel:`Create Payment Report`: click the :guilabel:`Create Payment Report` button and a
    :guilabel:`Select a bank journal` pop-up window appears. Select the correct bank journal from
    the drop-down menu. The batch name appears in the :guilabel:`File name` field, but this can be

>     modified if desired. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips and pay the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    modified, if desired. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips, and pay the
```

    employees.
  - :guilabel:`Mark as paid`: after the payments have been created via the :guilabel:`Create Payment
    Report` button, the payslips need to be marked as paid in the database. Click the
    :guilabel:`Mark as paid` button, and the status of the batch changes to :guilabel:`Paid`.

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm also seeing a 'Create ABA File' button and 'Set to Draft' button -- do you think those need to be explained?

Author: I added the set to draft option where it appears- but I never see the ABA one- I think that is for specific accounts with some kind of ABA setting on them and not a 'universal' issue- I am checking with the team and seeing if this needs to be added/explained/is common.

Author: OK- these are form specific localization settings and are not universal! =)  For example, SEPA is in Europe only.

On the batch detail page, the individual payslips in the batch are accessible via the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button, located above the batch information, in the center. Click the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button to view a list of the individual payslips.

> Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page or back to the list of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page, or back to the list of
```

all batches.

Generate warrant payslips
-------------------------

Commissions are paid to employees in Odoo using warrant payslips.

Warrant payslips can be generated directly from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`).

> First, select the desired batches by clicking the box to the left of each batch to create commission
> payslips for. Next, click the :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` button at the top of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, select the desired batches by clicking the box to the left of each batch for which commission
payslips should be created. Next, click the :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` button at the top
of the page.
```

Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` pop-up window, in which the necessary
information **must** be filled out.

.. image:: payslips/commission-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the commission details.

In this pop-up window, click on the drop-down menus, located beside the :guilabel:`Period` field, to
reveal calendar pop-up windows. On these calendar pop-up windows, select the desired period for
which the payslips are being generated. Using the :guilabel:`< (left)` and :guilabel:`> (right)`

> arrows, navigate to the correct month, and click on the date to select it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
arrows to navigate to the correct month, and click on the date to select it.
```

A new payslip can be created from the :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page, by clicking the
:guilabel:`New` button in the upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a separate blank payslip form
page. On that blank payslip form page, enter all the necessary information, as described in the
:ref:`Create new payslips <payroll/new-payslip>` section.

To print PDF versions of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips to Pay` or :guilabel:`Employee
Payslips` pages, first select the desired payslips by clicking on the individual checkbox to the
left of each payslip to be printed. Or, click the box to the left of the :guilabel:`Reference`
column title, which selects all visible payslips on the page. Then, click the :guilabel:`Print`
button to print the payslips.

Payslips can also be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. To export **all** payslips, click on the
:guilabel:`⚙️ (gear)` icon at the end of the words `Employee Payslips` in the top-left corner. This
reveals a drop-down menu. Click :guilabel:`Export All` to export all payslips to a spreadsheet.

.. image:: payslips/export.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on the Export All smart button to export all payslips to an Excel payslip.

> To export only select payslips, first select the payslips to be exported from the list. First, click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export only select payslips, first select the payslips to be exported from the list. Then, click
```

the checkbox to the left of each individual payslip to select it. As payslips are selected, a smart
button appears in the top-center of the page, indicating the number of selected payslips. Then,

> click the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear) Actions` icon in the top-center of the page, then click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
click the :guilabel:`⚙️ (gear) Actions` icon in the top-center of the page, and click
```

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

.. _payroll/batch-process:

Process a batch
---------------

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch on a separate page. On this batch
detail page, different options (buttons) appear at the top, depending on the status of the batch:

- :guilabel:`New` status: batches without any payslips added to them have a status of
  :guilabel:`New`. The following button options appear for these batches:

  .. image:: payslips/batch-new.png
     :align: center
     :alt: A batch with a status of new, with the available buttons highlighted.

  - :guilabel:`Add Payslips`: click the :guilabel:`Add Payslips` button to add payslips to the
    batch, and an :guilabel:`Add Payslips` pop-up window appears. Only payslips that can be added to
    the batch (payslips not currently part of a batch) appear on the list.

    Select the desired payslips by clicking the checkbox to the left of each payslip name, then
    click the :guilabel:`Select` button to add them to the batch. Once payslips are selected and
    added to the batch, the status changes to :guilabel:`Confirmed`.

>    - :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`: after payslips have been added to the batch, click the
>      :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button to process the payslips and create individual payslips in
>      the database.

Reviewer 3: If this bullet (:guilabel:\`Generate Payslips\`:) is intended to be a sub-bullet to (:guilabel:\`Add Payslips\`:), please indent it by another space, otherwise please scoot it back a space to align with its parent bullet point
```suggestion
    - :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`: after payslips have been added to the batch, click the
      :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button to process the payslips and create individual payslips in
      the database.
```

display all the payslip batches that have been created. These payslip batches are displayed in a
list view, by default.

Each batch displays the :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`Date From` and :guilabel:`Date To` dates, its
:guilabel:`Status`, the number of payslips in the batch (:guilabel:`Payslips Count`), and the
:guilabel:`Company`.

.. image:: payslips/batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View displaying all batches created.

Create a new batch
------------------

To create a new batch of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`), click the :guilabel:`New` button in the
top-left corner. Doing so reveals a blank payslip batch form on a separate page.

On the new payslip batch form, enter the :guilabel:`Batch Name`.

Next, select the date range to which the batch applies. Click into one of the :guilabel:`Period`

> fields and a calendar pop-up window appears. From this calendar pop-up window, navigate to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fields, and a calendar pop-up window appears. From this calendar pop-up window, navigate to the
```

correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates of the batch.

The current company populates the :guilabel:`Company` field. If operating in a multi-company
environment, it is **not** possible to modify the :guilabel:`Company` from the form. The batch
**must** be created while in the database for the desired company.

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

.. _payroll/batch-process:

Process a batch
---------------

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch on a separate page. On this batch
detail page, different options (buttons) appear at the top, depending on the status of the batch:

> - :guilabel:`New`: batches without any payslips added to them have a status of :guilabel:`New`. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`New` status: batches without any payslips added to them have a status of :guilabel:`New`. The
```

    the batch (payslips not currently part of a batch) appear on the list.

    Select the desired payslips by clicking the checkbox to the left of each payslip name, then
    click the :guilabel:`Select` button to add them to the batch. Once payslips are selected and
    added to the batch, the status changes to :guilabel:`Confirmed`.

   - :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`: after payslips have been added to the batch, click the
     :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button to process the payslips and create individual payslips in
     the database.

     A :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up window appears. If only a specific :guilabel:`Salary
     Structure` and/or specific :guilabel:`Department` is desired to make payslips for, select them
     from the corresponding drop-down menus. If no selections are made, then all payslips listed in
     the pop-up window are processed as usual.

     Click the :guilabel:`Generate` button to create the payslips. The :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`
     button changes to a :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button, and the status changes to
     :guilabel:`Confirmed`.

  .. image:: payslips/batch-new.png
     :align: center

>      :alt: A batch with a status of new, with the available buttons highlighted.

Reviewer 2: I believe this, and the other status-related images in this section of the doc would be more beneficial to reader if placed *between* the status definition and the subsequent buttons/options that appear for that specific status.

So, for this it would be 

New: ,,,,,

image

- Add Payslips: ....

and so on.

Please apply this suggestion for the remainder of screenshots used in this section. Thanks! 👍

- :guilabel:`Confirmed`: batches that have been created and have payslips in them, but the payslips

>   have *not* been processed have a status of :guilabel:`Confirmed`. The following two button options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  have *not* been processed, have a status of :guilabel:`Confirmed`. The following two button options
```

  appear for these batches:

  - :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry`: click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to confirm the
    individual payslips (and the batch), and create a draft of the payslips. The batch now has a
    status of :guilabel:`Done`.
  - :guilabel:`Set to Draft`: if at any point the batch needs to be reverted back to a status of
    :guilabel:`New`, click the :guilabel:`Set to Draft` button. This action does **not** remove any
    payslips that have already been added to the batch.

  .. image:: payslips/batch-confirmed.png
     :align: center
     :alt: A batch with a status of confirmed, with the available buttons highlighted.

- :guilabel:`Done`: batches with confirmed payslips in them have a status of :guilabel:`Done`. The
  following button options appear for these batches:

>   - :guilabel:`Create Payment Report`: click the :guilabel:`Create Payment Report` button and a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Create Payment Report`: click the :guilabel:`Create Payment Report` button, and a
```

    the drop-down menu.

    The batch name appears in the :guilabel:`File name` field, but this can be modified, if desired.
    Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips, and pay the employees.
  - :guilabel:`Mark as paid`: after the payments have been created via the :guilabel:`Create Payment
    Report` button, the payslips need to be marked as paid in the database.

    Click the :guilabel:`Mark as paid` button, and the status of the batch changes to
    :guilabel:`Paid`.
  - :guilabel:`Set to Draft`: if at any point the batch needs to be reverted back to a status of
    :guilabel:`New`, click the :guilabel:`Set to Draft` button. This action does **not** remove any
    payslips that have already been added to the batch.

  .. image:: payslips/batch-done.png
     :align: center
     :alt: A batch with a status of done, with the available buttons highlighted.

- :guilabel:`Paid`: batches that have been completed have a status of :guilabel:`Paid`. No other
  button options appear for this status.

  .. image:: payslips/batch-paid-2.png
     :align: center
     :alt: A batch with a status of paid, with the available buttons highlighted.

> On the batch detail page, the individual payslips in the batch are accessible via the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the batch detail page, the individual payslips in the batch are accessible, via the
```

:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button, located above the batch information, in the center. Click the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button to view a list of all the individual payslips.

Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page, or back to the list of
all batches.

Generate warrant payslips
-------------------------

> Commissions are paid to employees in Odoo using warrant payslips.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Commissions are paid to employees in Odoo using *warrant payslips*.
```

Warrant payslips can be generated directly from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`).

First, select the desired batches by clicking the box to the left of each batch for which commission
payslips should be created. Next, click the :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` button at the top
of the page.

Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Generate Warrant Payslips` pop-up window, in which the necessary
information **must** be filled out.

.. image:: payslips/commission-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the commission details.

In this pop-up window, click on the drop-down menus, located beside the :guilabel:`Period` field, to
reveal calendar pop-up windows. On these calendar pop-up windows, select the desired period for
which the payslips are being generated. Using the :guilabel:`< (left)` and :guilabel:`> (right)`

> arrows to navigate to the correct month, and click on the date to select it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
arrow icons, navigate to the correct month, and click on the date to select it.
```

:guilabel:`Employee` section.

Under the :guilabel:`Employee` section, enter the :guilabel:`Commission Amount` for each employee in

> the far right column. To remove an employee, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash)` icon to remove the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the far-right column. To remove an employee, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash)` icon to remove the
```
